# 📊 Virtualization Sizing Calculator (v2.0)

**Authors:** Adam Marcum & Gemini  
**Version:** 2.0  

A unified infrastructure sizing tool designed for Solutions Architects. It ingests data from **RVTools** or **Dell Live Optics**, performs complex sizing math (N+1, Growth, RAM/CPU constraints), and generates professional HTML executive summaries.

---

## 🚀 Quick Start (For Users)

**No coding knowledge required.** Follow these steps to run the tool on your Mac or Windows PC.

1.  **Download the Tool:**
    * Click the green **<> Code** button above.
    * Select **Download ZIP**.
    * **Extract/Unzip** the folder to your computer (e.g., in your Documents or Downloads folder).

2.  **Launch:**
    * **Windows:** Double-click `Run_on_Windows.bat`.
    * **Mac:** Double-click `Run_on_Mac.command`.
        * *Note for Mac Users:* If it says "permission denied," right-click the file and select Open, or check your Security settings.

3.  **Use:**
    * The tool will automatically install necessary components (first run only) and open in your web browser.
    * Upload your **RVTools.xlsx** OR **Live Optics.xlsx** file to begin.

---

## 💻 Developer Start (Manual Method)

If you prefer using the command line or modifying the code:

**Prerequisites:** Python 3.8+

1.  **Install Dependencies:**
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

2.  **Run the App:**
    ```bash
    streamlit run sizing_app.py
    ```

---

## 📝 About the Project

This tool automates the tedious Excel math required to size VMware environments. It acts as a "Single Pane of Glass" for sizing decisions, allowing Architects to switch between allocation-based safety and performance-based consolidation.

**What's New in Version 2.0:**
* **Dual-Parser Engine:** Automatically detects and parses both RVTools and Live Optics files.
* **Performance Sizing:** Calculate host requirements based on **Peak GHz**, **Average**, or **95th Percentile** consumption (Live Optics only).
* **Licensing Engine:** Calculates VMware Core-based licensing requirements (Legacy vs. Future).
* **Multi-File Support:** Upload multiple reports and switch between them dynamically.

## ✨ Key Features

### 1. Universal Data Ingestion
* **RVTools Mode:** Sizes based on *Entitlement* (Allocated vCPU/vRAM). Best for conservative sizing.
* **Live Optics Mode:** Sizes based on *Consumption* (Used GHz/Active RAM). Best for consolidation or aggressive sizing.

### 2. Sizing Logic
* **Constraint Analysis:** Automatically determines if the cluster is **CPU Bound** or **Memory Bound**.
* **HA & Growth:** Inputs for N+X redundancy and annual growth projections.
* **Overhead Awareness:** Adjustable buffers for Hypervisor CPU and RAM overhead (Default: 10%).

### 3. Architecture & Storage
* **NUMA Analysis:** Checks if large VMs exceed the physical NUMA boundaries of the target hardware.
* **Storage Intelligence:** Distinguishes between VMDK Provisioning (Allocation) and Raw Infrastructure capacity.

### 4. Professional Reporting
* Exports a branded HTML report containing:
    * Executive Recommendation (Host Count).
    * Supply vs. Demand Analysis.
    * Licensing Impact Analysis.
    * Performance insights (Allocation vs. Consumption gap).

## 📂 Repository Structure

* `sizing_app.py`: The main application code (The Brains).
* `requirements.txt`: List of required Python libraries (The Instructions).
* `Run_on_Windows.bat`: Launcher script for Windows users.
* `Run_on_Mac.command`: Launcher script for macOS users.

## 🛠 Configuration Options

The Sidebar allows you to tweak the sizing dynamically:

* **Target Hardware:** Sockets, Cores per Socket, and RAM per Host.
* **Constraints:**
    * **Max vCPU:pCPU Ratio:** Design limit for allocation sizing (Default: 5:1).
    * **Live Optics Basis:** Toggle between Peak, Average, or 95th Percentile sizing.
* **Scope:** Filter by specific Clusters or exclude powered-off VMs.

## 📜 License

This project is open for internal use and modification.
